>> Kyle Simpson: It is a fantastic
honor to be back for, as he said,
the fourth time.
Frontend Masters is,
holds kind of a special place in my heart,
I've said this before,
I think, on my other videos.
But almost three years ago,
when I was moving from being
a developer into being a teacher,
I had gone independent.
But I was moving to become a developer, I
mean to become a teacher from having been
a consultant and developer, and I was kind
of trying to get into this teaching thing.
Or at least had thought about this
teaching thing, and it was fortuitous that
at that same point in time Mark reached
out to me sort of unbeknownest.
I hadn't really known him or
followed a lot of his stuff.
I had heard a little bit, but not a lot.
And he reached out and asked if I would
want to come up and teach a workshop, and
that was sort of sight unseen I hadn't
done formal teaching like that before.
Certainly done a lot of
conference speaking but
teaching is quite a bit different and
so I credit Mark for
giving me my start if you will,
in this whole teaching thing, and now,
three years later that's what I do for
a living full time.
I travel all over the world teaching
about JavaScript and related things.
And so
I owe a lot of that start to Mark and
I appreciate it and
definitely am honored to be back.
So today, and
I wanna just take a few moment before
I even sort of officially get started
just to kind of level some expectations.
Mark already kind of mentioned this but
I wanna make sure everybody's
on the same page.
This is a change of pace from what I
typically teach but I think it's every bit
as important if not more important
that we teach from this perspective.
And I think there are lots and
lots of great materials,
there are great books, there are great
blogs, there are great websites out there.
I have recommended many of them before.
There is a fantastic website called
JavaScript for cats, jsforcats.com.
If you haven't checked that out,
it's a fantastic website by a really
smart dude named Max Augden.
And then there's great books on the topic.
Like for example I think a really
good book once you've gotten
at least somewhat of a foundation with
JavaScript and you wanna go further.
I think a great book is
Eloquent JavaScript, and
that's a really great place to start.
So there's lots of resources,
I'll probably spend lots and
lots of time talking to you about the
different resources that I've found and
that I believe in and endorse.
But one thing that I think has been a
little bit lacking, and that's kind of why
I was so insistent on wanting to do
this part of this workshop today.
Is a lot of times they start with
an assumption that you already understand
the concept of what a variable is, or
what a function is, or
what a loop actually means.
In fact with my own book series,
which I'll talk about in just a moment,
I kind of made that assumption.
I made the assumption that there was
this cliff that you showed up to
the books already knowing
something about programming.
And I got a lot of feedback from
people saying hey this sounds great.
Books are really cool.
But I wasn't ready for them yet.
I needed something else first.
And so long after I have already started
that book series, I went back and
said well what could I do
to create that footbridge.
What could I do to help people get up and
going, and
I decided to write the book for
the book series called Up and Going.
So for this first half of our discussion
for this discussion that we're going to go
through in the next couple of hours, the
goal is to go through that book content.
It's a rather short book, about 60 or
70 printed pages worth of book content.
But it starts from assumption of
no programming experience at all,
talking about the basics,
like even what a code editor is.
So if you're watching this, and
you feel like that's too basic for you,
I promise that as we progress
we get more and more into it.
And we'll pick you up somewhere along
the way so don't feel too bored or
too tune me out.
But we don't wanna lose people.
If you've shown up today or
to this video, if you've show up and
you don't have anything I wanted to make
sure, if there wasn't another resource
that had ever done this I wanted to make
sure to provide that resource for you.
So both in written form certainly go over
the book, because we will go over that and
that is essentially the written form
of this part of today's workshop.
But I also encourage you to check out
all those other resources that i was
mentioning too, and you kinda put all
of these different pieces together and
get a good foundation of programming.
It is much more important to get
a foundation in programming than I think
a lot of people give credit to.
I started programming when I was
a teenager, way back in the early 90s and
I didn't have any kind
of formal education.
And I figured it out the hard way,
and when I came back later and
did formal education,
I had to relearn an awful lot of stuff.
And I'd like to encourage you not
to necessarily take that path
of learning it the wrong way over and
over and over and
eventually finally picking
it up the right way.
It's a good idea to get
those good foundations, so
even though it may not look super
impressive on a resume to say I took
an intro programming course or whatever.
That's really, really important.
I'm willing to bet, even if you have some
programming experience, you know, for
instance, what a loop is.
I think when we start to talk about loops,
you may see that there's some slightly
different concepts related to loops
than maybe you've seen before.
Maybe you've only thought about it
as a syntax, and not as a concept.
So even for the experienced programmer, I
think there's little tidbits here that can
kind of tweak your mindset a little bit,
and that's really the goal,
is to make sure that that foundation
is as firm as possible, so
that all the other stuff
that we do makes sense.
So as we go throughout the rest
of the content material
through both halves of today,
and the other courses tomorrow,
we'll progressively build
upon that understanding.
We'll want to make sure
that that is solid.
So that's kind of an expectation of where
to start is that we'll start with the zero
knowledge.
By the end of this first half of today,
having gone through the up and
going, it's essentially equivalent
to the knowledge of say one, two,
maybe three months of
experience with JavaScript.
Okay, you're not an expert programmer.
You're not expected to
be an expert programmer.
You're not even expected to know how to
write a complete application from scratch.
But you should at least feel comfortable
with that and that will be our goal today.
So, interrupt me and ask lots of questions
because there won't be hardly any lecture.
There will be an awful lot of,
I will read through a portion of the book,
or talk about a portion of the book,
illustrate some of that stuff,
take some of the code samples and
expound upon them in my code editor and
then let you practice those things.
And there will be a lot of back and forth
with that so, If I skip over something, or
if I say something a little bit too quick,
or you'd like to go back, make this a very
interactive thing, because I don't
want it to just be a boring lecture.
Okay, so that's kinda some ground rules
for what to expect with the course,
by the end you should have two,
three months experience equivalent.
And then the second half of what we'll go
through later today will be more applied,
so there won't be as much
theory discussion, but
more application discussion.
And we'll walk through a little
simple site application and
apply some of our knowledge to that.